>> Sarah Drasner: Filtering is really
nicely done with a computed values.
And there are few reasons for this.
Computed properties are calculations
that would be cached and
only be updated when
a dependency has changed.
So, if you have a bunch of
logic that you need to run and
that dependency is not changing, it's not
going to keep rerunning those calculations
every time something changes in the dom or
the virtual domain.
It's highly performant, but
you should use it with some understanding
because it's a little bit
different from methods.
Methods we're executing just
like a normal function.
Computed is not the same.
So this is the simplest possible computed
example and not at all really use case.
Like, probably don't use it for this.
So I am going to actually open
this one in code pen as well.
If I write my name here and
the initial entry is my name and the
computer value is you're a monster Sarah.
Basically we have this user data here and
previously when we
have used something in this Moustache
template, it had to be in the data.
We have, you know it has to be
something that's in the data.
But now we're not, we have something
that it's not in the data.
This user data is being outputted
just like we're used to, but
we also have this thing called greeting.
And greeting is the computed property.
And you'll noticed the way
that we're using it
is we're actually using it as a property.
We're not, you know,
using it as a function.
I'm not writing parens here.
I'm actually taking this and
using it as though it's a piece of
that data that's hanging off of this.
I have to return it so
that I can get this,
like template literal outputting for me.
The thing to understand
about computed values, or
computed properties is that it's
a different view of the same data.
So it's taking something
that already exists, and
it's giving you a different view of it.
You can think of it a little bit like .map
where you have an existing array, and
then you have a new array that
you're creating off of it.
It's not actually affecting that
first you know piece of data at all.
That piece of data is
completely separate from it.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: The lazy modifier, whatever.
>> Speaker 2: It fires on enter and
blur, anything else?
>> Sarah Drasner: The .lazy,
I think it enter and blur.
>> Speaker 2: Those are the two I tracked.
>> Sarah Drasner: I think you can
configure it to work on other types of
events than just .enter, but I'm pretty
sure that that's like, the default.
>> Speaker 2: Ok.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah,
I'd have to play around with it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
I know it works on blur, too.
That's the only one I could think to try.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, yeah.
That makes sense.
Okay so computed and methods.
Computed runs only when the dependency
is changed I mentioned this before
methods run whenever an update occurs.
Computed is cashed.
Methods are not cached.
Computed should be used as
a property in place of data.
And methods typically are invoked on at,
or, but can, they can be
invoked whenever you need them,
just like the functions, they're flexible.
Computed is by default getter only,
but you can define a setter.
This is something that you won't
understand until later on in this Section.
I'm gonna go into getters and
setters a little bit more.
So by default it's just a getter,
and methods are getter and setter.
So if we're searching a title,
you guys just asked for this filtering.
We're going to say d-a ao we can
update this really fast if we want to.
How, or super, whatever, what have you.
And you can see how
quickly that's updating.
It's updating really super fast.
The other thing that you can see is
if I have something like this list.
I can still use these methods on
a computer value, so I can still say like
this and execute methods on that
different view of the same data.
So using our computer
property in place of data,
we have a different view of this data.
We have methods like we had before
running off of that view instance and
then in the computed values
we have just another object.
We're using it just like method's was.
So, I'm gonna blur out that method so
that you can focus just on
the computed value for a second.
In the computer value,
we have this thing called filtered films.
Inside of that we have a thing that's
just basically rejects getting rid of
capitalization things because you know
you could see I was using lower case in.
Java Script is very, very trying to
make sure everything matches exactly.
So I have to kind of use
regX to make sure it's not.
So I return this .ratings info which
is what our array was, if you remember.
This .ratingsinfo.filter then we
pass in the EL and we check for
matches in that filter that we created.
Now, before we had this
table that was set up with
this v-for="entry in ratingsInfo",
the only change we make to our code
is changing it to filteredFilms, and
filteredFilms is that computed property.
So does that seem clear to people?
Instead of using ratings
info like we had in this,
in our data property we are just
changing it to filtered.
>> Sarah Drasner: So the differences here,
if we go into this code pane
one last time,
we've got our data is counter and
we have a method that is this.counter++.
And we've got a counter and a counterup.
And again if we increase this,
this computed value does the same thing.
It executes the same method in
the same way, but it starts from one.
We're starting from one instead of zero.